doc/localinstall.rst, before:

Stand-alone installation 
========================

A stand-alone installation is recommended when you want your tests and testing
environment to be portable, from local development to CI server, to client
infrastructure. It also makes documentation consistent and reliable.

1. Create a folder for your BDD tests::

    mkdir projectfolder
    cd projectfolder
  
  All the commands that follow are written to install from the root of your
  project folder.

2. Install Composer, a php package manager::

     curl -s https://getcomposer.org/installer | php

3. Create a composer.json file to tell Composer what to install.  To do that,
   paste the following code into your editor and save as composer.json. The 
   Drupal Extension requires Behat, Mink, and the Mink Extension. They will all 
   be set up because they're dependencies of the Drupal Extension, so you don't 
   have to specify them directly in the composer.json file:

  .. literalinclude:: _static/snippets/composer.json 
     :language: javascript 
     :linenos:

  For Drupal 8, you'll need to specify the correct version of Guzzle:

  .. literalinclude:: _static/snippets/composer.json.d8
     :language: javascript
     :linenos:
     :emphasize-lines: 4

4. Run the following command to install the Drupal Extension and all those
   dependencies. This takes a while before you start to see output::

    php composer.phar install

5. Configure your testing environment by creating a file called behat.yml with
   the following. Be sure that you point the base_url at the web site YOU intend
   to test. Do not include a trailing slash:

  .. literalinclude:: _static/snippets/behat-1.yml 
     :language: yaml 
     :linenos:

6. Initialize behat. This creates the features folder with some basic things to
   get you started, including your own FeatureContext.php file:: 

    bin/behat --init

7. This will generate a FeatureContext.php file that looks like:

  .. literalinclude:: _static/snippets/FeatureContext.php.inc
     :language: php 
     :linenos: 
     :emphasize-lines: 12

  This FeatureContext.php will be aware of both the Drupal Extension
  and the Mink Extension, so you'll be able to take advantage of their
  drivers add your own custom step definitions as well.

8. To ensure everything is set up appropriately, type::

    bin/behat -dl
  
   You'll see a list of steps like the following, but longer, if you've
   installed everything successfully:
  

  .. code-block:: gherkin 
     :linenos:

      default | Given I am an anonymous user
      default | Given I am not logged in
      default | Given I am logged in as a user with the :role role(s)
      default | Given I am logged in as :name

Commit message:

clarify installation of composer
Some people (e.g. students we teach) are reinstalling composer each time they encounter this type of instruction, even though they have composer installed globally. Acknowledging that no solution is ideal for this issue, I'm hoping at least changing the instruction here will help the next round of behat install efforts.

doc/localinstall.rst, after:

Stand-alone installation 
========================

A stand-alone installation is recommended when you want your tests and testing
environment to be portable, from local development to CI server, to client
infrastructure. It also makes documentation consistent and reliable.

1. Create a folder for your BDD tests::

    mkdir projectfolder
    cd projectfolder
  
  All the commands that follow are written to install from the root of your
  project folder.

2. Check that you have Composer installed by entering the following in Terminal::

    composer

   If you do not see a list of Composer commands, [install Composer](https://getcomposer.org). 

3. Create a composer.json file to tell Composer what to install.  To do that,
   paste the following code into your editor and save as composer.json. The 
   Drupal Extension requires Behat, Mink, and the Mink Extension. They will all 
   be set up because they're dependencies of the Drupal Extension, so you don't 
   have to specify them directly in the composer.json file:

  .. literalinclude:: _static/snippets/composer.json 
     :language: javascript 
     :linenos:

  For Drupal 8, you'll need to specify the correct version of Guzzle:

  .. literalinclude:: _static/snippets/composer.json.d8
     :language: javascript
     :linenos:
     :emphasize-lines: 4

4. Depending on how you installed Composer, run one the following two commands
   to install the Drupal Extension and all those dependencies. This takes a while 
   before you start to see output.
   
   a. If composer is installed globally on your computer (you can type `composer` in
      any directory and see the list of composer commands)::

    composer install

   b. If composer is installed directly in your project directory (you see composer
   commands only when you run `composer` in your project directory)::

    php composer.phar install

5. Configure your testing environment by creating a file called behat.yml with
   the following. Be sure that you point the base_url at the web site YOU intend
   to test. Do not include a trailing slash:

  .. literalinclude:: _static/snippets/behat-1.yml 
     :language: yaml 
     :linenos:

6. Initialize behat. This creates the features folder with some basic things to
   get you started, including your own FeatureContext.php file:: 

    bin/behat --init

7. This will generate a FeatureContext.php file that looks like:

  .. literalinclude:: _static/snippets/FeatureContext.php.inc
     :language: php 
     :linenos: 
     :emphasize-lines: 12

  This FeatureContext.php will be aware of both the Drupal Extension
  and the Mink Extension, so you'll be able to take advantage of their
  drivers add your own custom step definitions as well.

8. To ensure everything is set up appropriately, type::

    bin/behat -dl
  
   You'll see a list of steps like the following, but longer, if you've
   installed everything successfully:
  

  .. code-block:: gherkin 
     :linenos:

      default | Given I am an anonymous user
      default | Given I am not logged in
      default | Given I am logged in as a user with the :role role(s)
      default | Given I am logged in as :name
